Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Senior Director,
Interactive Media Group,
Peter Graffagnino.
Hi.
Good afternoon, everybody.
I know it's been a long day,
a lot of interesting and
exciting announcements today.
But this is the last session.
I promise you it'll be worth
it that you stayed here for
the last session of the day.
So let's get started a little bit.
We talked a lot about Leopard and
all the innovations this morning.
But we in the system software
team have been busy on a few
other projects this year as well.
Both Apple TV and iPhone contain a lot
of the media and graphics technologies
that we work on in Leopard as well.
And so, if you look across Apple's entire
product line from Macs to iPhone,
iPods, and Apple TV,
we really have a broad opportunity for
you guys in a number of different areas.
And I want everyone to kind of
think beyond just addressing
the desktop and thinking about
some other platforms as well.
So,
one way to kind of look at this universe
of evolving Apple products is to
think about kind of desktop platform,
the web platform, and the media platform.
And these are, you know,
not unique to Apple.
Everyone out there is sort of
talking about these things.
And a bunch of people think that,
you know,
these are their forces at work and
these are all going to become one thing.
It's going to be a grand universal
runtime to rule everything and it's
going to play your media and do your
desktop computing and your web computing.
And I guess my take on all that,
and maybe I'm just old,
but I don't think that's going to happen.
I have an analogy for this
just from thinking about,
you know,
how we go about our daily lives.
My desktop, at least my laptop,
I kind of feel is like my home.
I mean, it's my stuff.
The people I, you know,
people I let into my house,
I know I kind of treat them a
little bit differently than someone
I might just meet on the street.
The web,
I kind of think like the... of the pub or
the Village Green where it's very social.
You go there, you may meet an old friend,
you may find a new friend,
you may do a little
business with the bank.
But you're kind of out
and social and connected.
And it's a great platform for that, but,
you know, it's not where you live.
Although I guess some
people live in the pub,
but...
Not everybody.
The media is like a very different
kind of modality for people.
You sit in a, you know,
in a movie theater and all the
chairs face the same direction.
You watch the screen,
it's kind of a very passive experience
where you're transported by a story.
And so I think that these are, you know,
for all time have been
kind of three different,
different ways we are.
So I think that it's unclear to me that
these platforms are all gonna merge.
It's also unclear for
some technical reasons.
Let's look at the desktop.
The desktop is really all about
performance and responsiveness.
You have your hard disk
drive with lots of storage.
You've got 64-bit computer.
You've got all of the power of the GPU.
You've got potentially
fiber channel connections.
You've got multiple core CPUs.
All of this power is really there
to drive the user experience and
make the tool or the task that the
user is doing with the computer
be performant and responsive.
And so there's a big difference when
your data is kind of microseconds
or milliseconds away than when it
might be minutes or hours away.
Device connectivity.
This is another thing where the
desktop is really essential for
dealing with things like scanners,
printers, MIDI keyboards,
cameras of all kinds.
So again, you need rich frameworks to
be able to take this data in,
use it, and put data out again.
And trusted execution.
The desktop is an environment where
it is your stuff on your hard drive,
and the applications you run you trust
to help you to manage your life and to
build your tools in your personal thing,
just like you might take
care of things in your house.
So let's talk about the web.
The technical aspects of the web
that I think make it unique are,
for one, its connectedness.
I mean, it is a big cloud out there.
Every site can connect
to every other site.
It's very linked.
It's interconnected.
It's always on.
Again,
it's like a social environment where
people go to meet and communicate.
The other important thing about the web,
and this is critical to the
web in order to meet that
need of being a social place,
is it's really platform independent.
It doesn't matter if you're
running Windows or Mac or your
iPhone or Linux or whatever.
You can get on the web.
You can take care of business.
You can meet people.
And also an important leg of
the whole ubiquity of the web
is that it's based on standards.
So you can have an implementation
that runs on a device or a
desktop or multiple browsers.
Content Media
So this is a platform
that has the widest reach.
There's a wide variety of devices
that can play back content and media,
come in all form factors
and different trade-offs.
Form factor, performance, battery life,
connectivity, and all of those things
make it practically any form
factor device can play media.
And media's really a
narrative experience.
So it's usually a storytelling thing.
You sit back, you get transported,
you go where the story's going to go.
And you're in a different receptive mode.
You're not participating.
You're really being moved by the story.
And lastly,
it's really limited interactivity.
I mean, people tried to do interactive
storytelling with CD-ROMs
and things like that,
and people didn't really want that.
You really just want to take
where the director and the
storyteller wanted you to go.
So maybe you can time shift or play,
pause, stop, those kind of things,
chapter navigation.
But really, you turn it on,
and you just want to be entertained.
So those are some of the
reasons why I think that,
yeah,
we'll see a little blurring of the lines,
but basically these three
platforms remain distinct.
And obviously, they remain critical
to Apple on all fronts.
So for example,
in the world of Apple devices,
you could have a great
app on OS X on Leopard.
Then you could develop a website,
which would be great on OS X,
but that website would work
just fine on Windows as well,
especially with WebKit on
Windows now and Safari on Windows.
Or that website could work on your phone.
You saw from Scott today how
great the phone is in being real
high-fidelity web experience.
( Transcript missing )
So all of these platforms
form an ecosystem for content,
for the web experiences,
and for desktop experiences.
So in summary,
platform richness is really an
area where the desktop wins because
it's closest to the hardware.
The web is pretty rich,
and Darren's going to have some
great demos later of web experiences.
And of course,
media is everywhere but not as rich.
Platform connectedness is
really where the web excels.
Desktop is pretty connected as well,
but there's not as much of agreement
on the protocols that people use for
file sharing and things like that.
Media is typically not
a connected experience.
People are playing with this area,
but frankly,
I'm not sure that's what I want
to do when I'm being entertained.
Now, if you really want to talk about
hitting that broad variety of devices,
whether it's DVD players or your
home theater system or an iPod,
then media is really everywhere.
And so that's where media really
has an advantage in terms of reach.
So those three platforms are
the way I set up the talk today
to talk about the desktop,
we're going to talk about the web,
and we're going to talk about
the media and kind of how all of
these things create opportunity
for you and your applications.
First up is going to be the desktop.
We're going to talk about
Mac OS X Leopard and all the graphics and
media technologies we have for you there.
And to do that,
I'd like to invite John Stauffer
up to the stage to take you through
making great desktop applications.
Thank you, Peter, and welcome.
So today, I'm going to be talking about
making great desktop applications.
And more specifically,
I'm going to be talking about
something more dear to my heart,
which is making great desktop
applications using graphics and
media technologies inside of Leopard.
So let's get started.
So the technologies that
I wanted to highlight,
that I wanted to encourage
you to learn more about,
that we wanted to have you look
at in integrating into your
applications is Core Animation,
ImageKit, Core Image, OpenGL,
and QuickTime.
These are the technologies
that we're going to talk about.
We're going to run through some demos.
We're going to look at some examples.
And what's important to understand as
we walk through and we talk about these
is that these technologies not only
are for enhancing your application,
for enhancing the user
experience of your application,
but they can perform the heavy
lifting of your application.
They can do a lot of the work that
your application needs to get done.
So to start with, I'm going to read a
quote from a developer,
Will Shipley of Delicious Monster.
And Will has had the chance to use
Core Animation since we seeded it,
and here's what he has to say about it.
"The revolution coming from
Core Animation is akin to the one that
came from the original Mac in 1984.
We're going to see a whole
new world of user interface
metaphors with Core Animation."
summarizes how we feel about it,
and that is that it brings -- it
enables you as the application
developer to rethink and refactor
your applications to build new
capabilities into your application.
So let's talk about it a little bit.
So at Apple,
we've been doing exactly that.
We've been rethinking our applications,
our user interfaces, and--
We wanted to bring
that capability to you.
We wanted to expose it in a
way that you could do the same.
And that's why we built Core Animation.
We built it for you to do the same
kinds of things we're doing at Apple.
So Core Animation is a
layer-based framework.
And what that means is that it's -- a
layer is 2D planes arranged in 3D space.
And Core Animation handles
the animation of those planes
So Core Automation comes with
a very easy programming model.
It makes it easy for you to leverage it.
Core animation supports
transparencies in these layers,
and it supports all the filter
effects that come with Mac OS X,
all the filter effects that
are part of core image.
It supports multiple media
types in these layers,
such as text, 2D graphics,
OpenGL can be embedded
on a layer and animated,
and the same can be done with QuickTime.
So a layer is a fairly
expressive type of media.
And Core Animation is
GPU-accelerated and multithreaded,
so it gives you the performance you need
to handle the most demanding animations.
It's a very powerful API.
So Core Animation is built to deliver
high production value experiences.
That's what we built it for.
So Time Machine is a great
example of using Core Animation.
Time Machine takes what normally would
be a mundane task of backing up files
and makes it into an interesting,
and usable application for a user.
It takes the content,
it takes the function of that
application and makes it foremost.
It makes it the thing that everyone,
that the user is focused on.
It makes it clear to use.
So it's a good example of
the type of rethinking,
refactoring you can do
with an application.
So let's do a demo of Core Animation,
and let's show some examples of
diving into it a little bit more.
So many of you have seen
this demo in the keynote.
But what I want to do is I want
to talk about the mechanics
behind it a little bit.
So we talked about layers and space.
So as you can see,
these are just layers arranged in space.
And the power of core
animation is in its animation,
right?
So as I type a search key,
I see that these layers are animating.
And what's important to understand
here is that LayerKit is
handling that animation for you.
The application is defining
the beginning and the end
state of those layers in space.
And Core Animation is
moving them there for you.
It's animating those layers in space.
That is all just part
of Core Animation and
free with Core Animation.
So we also talked a little bit
about different media types
that can be put onto a layer.
Let's look at that a little bit closer.
So we see video here,
but we talked about still images.
So it can handle still images.
It can handle text.
But what's interesting here is
there's another layer behind this.
There's another nugget
of functionality here.
And that is that Core Automation
can handle levels of detail as well.
So I can sit here and zoom into
this PDF that has text on it.
And what happens is Core Animation calls
back to the application and
asks it to redraw this text.
at full resolution.
So as I zoom in,
I'm getting full-quality text,
even though I'm zooming in on a document.
And I can zoom back out,
and Core Animation, again,
is handling the level of detail.
So, you know,
the same thing can be done with
other types of PDFs or rendering.
You know, so here's a map.
I can zoom in on this.
And again, you can see I'm getting
full-quality rendering.
So let's go back to slides.
So that's Core Animation.
So at Apple, we've also been building
robust image viewing and
thumbnail viewing capabilities
into our applications and
into the operating system.
And this also led us to build ImageKit.
ImageKit,
is built for you to be able to do
that same thing in your products,
your applications.
So ImageKit is a Cocoa framework that
handles your common image handling tasks.
It has a robust image
view for viewing images,
but it's not just for viewing them.
It handles common editing
tasks like rotate,
crop, scale,
and it can also apply all the
filter effects of core image.
So you can take the image and
you can perform a whole wealth
of operations and filtering
tasks on that image in the view.
It also comes with a
high-performance browser,
thumbnail browser,
and we've spent the time to
optimize this such that it can
handle a large number of images.
In fact,
it can handle up to 250,000 images,
so that no matter what
your user is doing,
if they happen to
If you pick their iPhoto
library on their file system,
your application won't all
of a sudden come to a stop.
It'll actually handle it
robustly and manage that.
It comes with a slideshow and
a picture taker for giving your
users full-screen picture viewing
and integration with the camera.
And it leverages Core Animation.
So this is a technology that
layers on top of Core Animation for
some of its functionality.
So let's go back and let's
look at a demo of that.
So here we see a fairly
basic application.
On the top, where the fish are,
that is the image view.
The bottom section of the screen,
where the thumbnails,
that is the image browser.
So as I said, you can perform basic
operations like rotates.
You can perform scales.
And that's all just built in.
At the bottom here,
we have the thumbnail browser.
And you can see that it
gives you smooth scrolling,
but it handles other
types of tasks as well.
For instance,
if I select some images and I move them,
the image browser automatically handles
the animation and the reordering,
so it gives you a smooth,
polished look of
managing your thumbnails.
So right now I have 46 images in here.
Let's throw another 5,000 in there.
Just drag it and drop it in there.
You can see very quickly
it imported those.
They're very responsive.
And again,
I can sit here and just scroll these.
And as I scroll quickly
through these thumbnails,
ImageKit is off building
the thumbnails for me,
building the thumbnails
and displaying them.
But what it can also do is,
let's say I scale these thumbnails.
Core animation, I'm sorry,
ImageKit is off building the
thumbnails at the new resolution.
So it's all very easy for you
to have this kind of capability
built into your application.
OK, let's go back to slides.
Core Image.
So Core Image is not new for Leopard,
but it's a technology that we
have continued to invest in.
It's a technology that we
feel is a key technology,
and it is the backbone of image
processing inside the operating system.
( Transcript missing )
We've made it extensible through
custom image units so you can
write your own effects and extend
the capability of core image.
And it's based on a full
floating point implementation,
meaning that you get professional-grade
image processing in your application.
Like our other technologies,
we spent the time to GPU accelerate
and multi-thread core image.
And Core Image, like I mentioned before,
it is used by some of
our other technologies,
like Core Animation and ImageKit.
It is the filter effects
technology in those APIs.
So new for Leopard,
we've added 25 new effects.
We've added 64-bit support for
handling those large images.
And we've enhanced performance.
In some cases, we've enhanced performance
by as much as 10x.
So we've been investing
and improving this,
and it's going to be a great
technology for Leopard.
OpenGL.
So OpenGL, we look at it as the bedrock
of graphics on Mac OS X.
It is the harder abstraction
layer at which you access the GPU.
It is that lowest level API.
Many of the technologies that
we've been talking about,
and many others, directly or indirectly,
leverage OpenGL to accelerate
through the graphics processor.
So OpenGL is an industry standard.
Apple works with companies like NVIDIA,
ATI,
and Intel to continue to further OpenGL,
make it better for developers,
easier to leverage functionality,
more efficient, but also to expose new
hardware functionality.
We make it such that as
new hardware comes out,
we work with the standards
body to get that exposed
functionality in the standard.
New in Leopard is OpenGL 2.1,
and that includes GLSL 1.2,
the high-level shading language.
And like many of our other technologies,
we've spent the time to multithread it
to make it efficient on your system,
optimized so that it runs
at maximum performance.
We've also built a 64-bit version,
so you can integrate this
into your 64-bit applications.
And part of the new shader language
is what we call Generation 4 shaders,
and that includes geometry shaders.
So now we have a new functional
programmable block on the pipeline,
which is geometry shaders.
And we've improved the tools.
We've spent the time to
improve OpenGL Profiler and
OpenGL Driver Monitor for debugging
and optimizing our applications.
And we've improved Shader Builder
for building your shader effects.
So some of you have probably
seen John Carmack's technology
demonstration in the keynote.
This represents his--
Fifth-generation game engine.
And we think this is a really
good example of what can be
done with the power of OpenGL.
We think this is a great
example of building an immersive
3D cinematic application.
And this is the kind of applications
that we hope are around the corner,
that we're going to start seeing more and
more of on the platform as the graphics
processor and the APIs to drive that
get more flexible and more powerful.
So let's talk about QuickTime.
QuickTime is another key technology
that we invest in at Apple.
We've been investing
heavily in improving.
An area we've been investing in is QtKit.
QtKit is the Cocoa framework for
accessing QuickTime functionality,
and it makes integrating
QuickTime functionality
into your application easy.
It also supports core animation.
Like I had mentioned before,
you can embed a
QuickTime movie onto a layer,
allowing you to perform animations.
And we've added some new
API in QtKit for Leopard,
and that is it supports device capture.
You can capture video from iSights
and many USB and FireWire cameras.
And it also supports 64-bit.
This is the only way to
get QuickTime support
in a 64-bit application.
So let's look at a demo.
And to do that,
I'm going to invite Geoff Staahl,
the 3D graphics engineering manager,
up on the stage.
And we're going to look at
a demo of World of Warcraft.
And this is an interesting demo
because it combines two technologies,
OpenGL and QuickTime together to bring
new capabilities to an application,
new user functionality.
And we thought it would be interesting to
look at this and see how that was done.
So with that,
I'm going to hand it over to Geoff.
GEOFF STALL: Thanks, John.
We can go ahead and switch
to the demo machine.
And what we're going to show here is
a little bit different than last year.
Last year,
we showed how Blizzard has taken
advantage of multi-threaded
OpenGL to greatly enhance the
performance of their application.
In this case,
we're going to show how Blizzard has
taken a synergy of some of the
technologies we have here to
greatly enhance the user experience,
allowing players to create great
machinima productions in-game.
What we're demonstrating is a new update
coming very shortly from Blizzard for
Mac OS X that will allow in-game movie
capture and compression on the fly.
So let's jump right in and show
you what you're going to have.
So if we look under Mac Options,
now we have the ability to
control movie recording.
We're going to be recording
for the demo at 1024x768,
30 frames per second,
and using an H.264 codec
to compress on the fly.
So as we run around,
one of the keys here is to
actually integrate this into your
player experience so it doesn't
really affect your gameplay.
So I've just enabled the video capture.
And if you notice,
the gameplay is still extremely fluid.
Using the power of the GPU and
the multicore on this system,
Blizzard has been able to put the video
capture in and the on-the-fly compression
without detriment to your gameplay.
So once you finish your adventure,
you can head back to the
campfire to tell tall tales.
And you can show who really
was the hero for that day.
You see the compression is finishing
up here as I'm heading back out.
And this will compress into
a QuickTime movie that we
can then send to your mom,
sync to your iPod.
Send to your Apple TV or to your
iPhone or even make a great website.
So let's hop down and look at
the movie we've just created.
Launching in QuickTime,
this is the movie we just created,
1024 by 768, 30 frames per second,
on-the-fly compression,
and the gameplay still is tremendous.
So this is a great example
of how Blizzard has taken,
again, a synergy of these technologies,
OpenGL, QuickTime,
the GPU and multi-core CPUs,
combined them together to create a great,
enhanced user experience.
Thanks a lot, and back to John.
JOHN STAFFER: Thank you, Geoff.
So that's a great example of
combining two technologies to
bring a new functionality or a new
capability to your application.
And that brings me to Quartz Composer.
Quartz Composer is a
technology that does just that.
Quartz Composer integrates many
of the interesting technologies in
Mac OS X into an easy-to-use framework.
Quartz Composer is for building stunning
motion graphics and visual effects.
That's what Quartz Composer is built for.
But further,
Quartz Composer comes with a tool that
allows you to build these visual effects,
and we call them compositions,
in a visual programming model.
You can launch this tool,
and you can build visual effects
without writing a single line of code.
And that's one of the really
powerful parts of Quartz Composer,
is the tool that allows you to do this.
It makes it an artistic process,
not a programming process.
So these compositions are easily
integrated into your application.
And so new for Leopard,
what we've done is we've
added the ability for you
to write your own patches.
Patches are the functional
blocks of a composition,
the logical functional blocks.
So you can write your own
patches so you can extend the
capability of Quartz Composer.
And what we've also done for Leopard is
we've built a system-wide composition
repository where compositions can
be shared between applications.
So, for example, Photo Booth, iChat,
and Automator use the compositions
in this shared repository.
You can build a composition,
add it to that repository,
and automatically extend the
functionality of those applications.
Those applications will pick those
compositions up and they'll become
available in those applications.
So that's a great way to share
compositions between your
applications or other applications.
So we've added new and
updated the current patches.
We've been putting a lot of
work into enhancing those,
the patches that come
with Quartz Composer.
And we've completely
rewritten the visual editor.
We've rewritten it from the ground up,
making it even easier and more
flexible for you to build compositions.
So that's Quartz Composer.
So something we're doing
that's interesting this year
is we have a display wall.
Some of you may have seen it already,
but it's something you have to go see.
It's down in the Graphics & Media lab.
It's a massive video wall display.
And this is based on Quartz Composer,
and it shows the flexibility
that Quartz Composer has.
Quartz Composer brings very flexible
technologies into a single package.
So we talked about a few technologies.
We highlighted a few.
Don't forget, there's a whole array of
technologies in Mac OS X and Leopard.
And we encourage you to go to all
the sessions and learn about the
graphics and media technologies
that are built right in,
technologies that will not
only enhance your application,
but make your application optimized
for the system and do the heavy
lifting for your application.
These are fantastic technologies
that should make your jobs easy.
Easier.
So with that, I'm going to hand the
stage back to Peter.
Thank you.
PETER GRAFFANINO: Thanks, John.
Thanks, John.
So that's a little brief tour
of Leopard and some of the
new things we have for you.
As John mentioned, there's tons of stuff,
lots of sessions, so please check out all
the great Leopard stuff.
I'd like to talk a little bit
about Mac OS X to kind of set
the stage for the web section.
Mac OS X is a layered architecture,
and that's really stood us well over
the test of time with the applications
and frameworks on top of graphics and,
of course, the OS stack.
So we've got a lot of stuff underneath.
And if you think about it and
squint your eyes a little bit,
the web is sort of
designed in the same way.
There's websites,
which are kind of all the
applications that run on the web.
There's an HTML engine,
which provides the framework.
There's a graphics layer underneath that
that supports the HTML engine for text
and graphics and an operating system,
obviously, for the device that the
browser is running on.
And really, if you think about Apple's
implementation of the web,
it really is all about... And one
thing we haven't mentioned so far is
that actually the Quartz 2D API moves
with WebKit wherever WebKit goes.
And so both iPhone and the
Windows implementation of
WebKit rely on Quartz 2D.
That's why we get such great
rendering fidelity across platform.
And, of course, QuickTime,
the QuickTime plugin,
plugs right into WebKit to provide
rich media services as well.
So if you look at all the things
we're doing in this space,
it's a pretty compelling platform.
And to talk about that...
Across all of our products.
Sorry, I missed that click.
But to talk about this,
I'm going to invite Darren Adler
up to the stage to talk
about Apple's web technology.
Thank you.
Thanks, Peter.
So even though I'm the manager of
the team that developed Safari,
I'm not really talking
just about Safari today.
I want to take you on a quick
tour through the world of web
applications and web technology.
So first,
let's get a little bit of context.
Here's a picture you've seen
earlier today a couple times,
desktop as of 1984.
The state of the art in terms of the look
with those snazzy rounded corners around
the screen and in the user interface.
The desktop has changed a lot.
If you take a look at desktop today,
you see a lot more media,
pictures everywhere, graphics,
and also a lot more richness.
Well, the same kind of thing
has happened with the web.
Here's the web as it looked in the Mosaic
browser at the dawn of the web in 1993.
And websites are mostly
about text and links.
There are plenty of pictures in them,
but occasionally.
And the web has also changed.
Alongside the desktop,
the web is also now full of media.
Even a website like the
New York Times that's still basically
about some information and some links
is full of elements that have media,
have interaction.
And this is what it looks like in
a modern browser like Safari 3.
Both of these platforms,
the web technologies and
the desktop platforms,
are obviously going to keep moving.
And what happens is that capabilities
that were something you'd find
only on the desktop in years
past become something that's
achievable with web technology.
I'll show you what I mean
by that in a moment.
So what are some of the
distinguishing things about the web?
Well,
we talked about the connectedness of the
web and also the ubiquity of the web.
If you take these four,
these are the top four
browsers by market share,
Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari,
and Opera.
If you take these four,
they cover a huge variety
of devices and platforms,
everything from a kiosk in an airport,
desktop computers, game consoles.
You're going to be able to
get web content all over
the place because of these.
And what makes it work across all
these different browsers is the way
that we cooperate and use standards.
But even if you just think
about Safari 3 and WebKit,
this is something that
you've got on Mac OS X,
you've got on iPhone,
and also on Windows.
So there's a lot of reach to web content.
So what is a web application?
Well, a lot of times you might
hear the term Web 2.0.
And this was coined a few
years back by Tim O'Reilly,
the famous technologist
and book publisher.
And it's really about a new generation
of websites that are different
from the websites on the early web.
The kinds of things that we're
talking about when we talk about
Web 2.0 are websites that involve
participation and also websites
that start to have a feel that's
less about moving from page to page.
And more like what you associate
with a desktop application.
So now let's take a look at
some of these web applications
to show what I'm talking about.
Wikipedia is an interesting example.
You take a look at this page full of
information like an encyclopedia page.
And there's nothing there that
particularly makes it Web 2.0.
But the key is the
interaction and participation.
If you know more about
the Adelie Penguin and you
want to add it to the site,
you edit it using this link.
Wikipedia's editor.
One of the seminal web applications
that had a lot of impact on
what everybody thinks of being
possible on the web is Google Maps.
Again, this is an application that when
you're using the map and manipulating
it and searching for things,
you're not moving between web pages.
You're using the kind of interaction
and clicks and gestures and user
interface that's a little bit
more like a desktop application.
37signals is a company that's
done a number of web applications,
and this HiRise application is
an example of a contact manager.
Now, these are applications for
keeping track of contacts,
very popular for people in businesses
like sales who really need to
keep track of who they talk to.
And these are traditionally
desktop applications.
Here's one built completely
with web technology.
And then you get to some applications
that are really traditional desktop
applications like word processors,
and Google Docs, formerly Rightly,
is a complete word
processor implemented with
Web Technology.
So I'd like to show you
another web application.
So let's go over here.
One of my favorites.
and this is the mail from .Mac.
So if you're familiar,
if you haven't seen this before,
you might not even realize that
we're looking at a web page.
The main clues are the fact
that it's inside Safari and
has the bars from Apple.com.
But what's going on here is that
you have a mail application with
a lot of the same qualities as
mail applications on the desktop.
It looks a lot like the OS X Mail app.
You click on a mail message
and see the message down below.
These fancy ones look really great.
And there's a lot of interaction
here that's exactly like what you
would expect in a desktop app.
For example,
if you choose a couple messages,
you can delete them or
reply to any one message,
mark them as unread,
all the same kind of commands
you'd expect in the desktop.
And also, the user interface is very
similar to the desktop.
The user interface has elements
that you might not expect
to find in the web at all.
For example,
I can just take this message,
drag it over and drop it into a folder.
This is not what people think
about -- what most people think
about when they think about web
pages and web user interface.
So let's see.
We can search for a word
like "team" and -- oh,
that was the wrong word to search for.
Let's not do that.
Or I can search for somebody's
name in my address book.
And just choose it here and
use it to address my mail.
So really what you've got here is
something that has a lot of the
properties of a desktop application,
even though it's implemented
entirely with web technology.
So let's go back to the slides.
So even though this is a web application,
it's reminiscent of desktop apps.
And it really is the kind of thing that
it looks like a desktop application,
maybe not a desktop app of today,
but certainly a desktop
app of a couple years ago.
The techniques used to implement
this are a big part of a lot of
the different Web 2.0 websites.
And one interesting thing about
this is even though I was demoing
that in the brand new Safari 3,
it works just fine
with existing browsers.
It doesn't require brand
new browser capabilities.
It works great in Safari 2.
So if you're putting
together a web application,
there are a few things you want to do.
One is that you want to make
sure that it works in any
browser and degrades gracefully.
And another is that just like
any software development,
you'd like to reuse your code.
You don't want to have every single
web application start from scratch.
And to make that happen,
one of the most important things to
do is to get a JavaScript library.
JavaScript is the programming
language you use inside web pages
alongside the markup languages,
HTML and CSS.
And there are some really excellent
JavaScript libraries that have
been a big part of the Web 2.0
thing that's happening right now.
Dojo, Scriptaculous,
which is built on prototype,
are some of the richest and most popular.
You can also build your
own JavaScript library.
It's great language and it's
pretty easy to make reusable code.
Here at Apple,
we do both of those things.
And if you take a look at Apple websites,
you'll see all kinds of
use of these libraries.
One of the nice things about the
web is you can see the source code
just with view source and all.
And so see that we do
both of those things.
Now, when the people build these sorts of
libraries and you build your site,
there's really a rich set
of technologies to build on.
A whole lot of stuff already
built into every browser,
all the modern ones.
And just to give you an idea of how
this relates to desktop technology,
I picked out a few of the
fundamentals and listed the
classes in AppKit or the techniques
in AppKit and the web techniques.
And I'm not going to go
through all of these,
but, you know, there's, you know,
if you want to do a table on the desktop,
with AppKit, use NS Table View.
There's the table element on the web.
But let's talk for a moment
specifically about 2D graphics.
So, because of the Canvas element,
which is an innovation originally
created by Apple for Safari around
the time of Dashboard,
which is now in most
of the modern browsers,
you can do graphics operations.
Pretty most of the graphics
operations that are in Quartz 2D
are available to you within the web.
So let's look at an example here.
If you looked at
Apple applications recently,
you may have noticed that to
create the illusion of a floor,
we often reflect an image.
In fact, I think of this as the rounded
corners of the 21st century.
So to achieve this in a web page
is straightforward with Canvas.
You simply have the image,
draw it twice with the proper settings
to make the reflection look right.
And so I just,
that's an example of achieving
these things that you think of
as doing with desktop technology.
Now another example is rich text editing.
I list here one class, NSTextView,
as the Cocoa way to access rich text.
And it is true that there's
only that one class you have
to deal with to do the basics,
but there are really tons and
tons of classes when it comes
to rich text editing in Cocoa.
And the reason for that is
it's a really complex class.
It's a complicated problem.
It's one of the trickiest things
to do in an application framework.
Now with Safari 3,
we have a full implementation of that
rich text editing based on what is done
in other browsers and some web standards.
Let me show you a little bit,
a little example of that.
So this ties together the idea of
using a JavaScript library and also a
little bit of an example of rich text.
So imagine that this is a piece
of a web page that's editable.
And because we want it to be
what you see is what you get,
we don't want to put a lot of editing
controls on the page all the time.
So instead,
what we do is make it so that once
you make a selection in this text,
you get this attractive editing
toolbar that appears around it.
Now, any time you have
editable text in Safari,
you have this whole menu full of
editing stuff that the browser
supplies that's always there.
So I'm going to use that.
Just pull up the font panel,
make the text a little bigger,
about 20 point.
But in addition,
this toolbar gives you something
that will appear in any browser that
lets you do these editing operations,
bold some of the text,
make these three words italic,
or even take a whole paragraph
and right justify it.
And what I think is particularly cool
about this example is that it's a little
bit of JavaScript to create this toolbar.
And it's really beautiful.
It's nice looking, nice experience,
and works with any browser.
So that's an example of the kind
of building block that you might
want to use when you're putting
together web applications.
This particular one looks good.
We're going to give you source code.
There's a session on
HTML editing later in the week,
I think Wednesday,
where you'll hear more about this.
Now, as I said,
Safari 3 now has full rich editing.
The basics were there in Safari 2,
but now it's really all there.
So one thing I'd like to
ask you to do is please,
if you have a site that does
rich editing in other browsers,
turn it on for the new Safari.
A lot of times, we go to sites where
there's rich editing,
but we just get plain
text because they say,
oh, it's Safari.
They don't have this stuff.
So please turn it on.
And also, if you're doing that,
please check for the new WebKit version,
not the new Safari version,
because we don't want to lock out other
web browsers that are using WebKit.
So I talked a little bit about
some of the things you use to
put together a web application,
but there's another really
interesting category,
what I'm referring to here
as hybrid applications.
Now, there are really these applications
that take advantage of web
technologies and desktop technologies.
Now, there's one category like World of
Warcraft that uses the Internet and
networking on the back end and
desktop-type stuff on the front end.
And that's really one type of hybrid app.
But the kind I'm talking about is
one that wants to use other web
technologies like HTML and JavaScript.
And this is really
straightforward to do with Cocoa.
You just create a web view,
which is an NSView subclass.
There's all kinds of ways to use it,
rich text view if you're authoring HTML,
to incorporate web pages.
Let me just show you a
couple examples real quick.
IChat in Leopard uses
WebView for its chat transcript.
And what does that do for IChat?
Well, one of the things it does
is you can have a bunch of
different styles of transcript,
and you don't have to write separate
code for those because the people
writing IChat didn't have to write
separate code for those because
they can use CSS style sheets.
So just by changing the style sheet,
I can make this chat instead
look like this or like this.
And all of that is done with
the style sheet language.
You get that for free just
because you're using a WebView.
Another example of sort of the premier
application using WebKit is Mail that
uses WebKit for authoring all the mail.
A great example of a third-party app
that's a true hybrid is NetNewsWire,
which is an application to help
you read lots of news feeds.
And here,
what WebView is really being used for is
to be a mini web browser inside an app.
And depending on the
type of app you have,
you may need one of those.
It's really easy to get one.
Finally, I thought this was an
interesting example.
There is a web chat
program called Campfire.
And so it's just, it's a web application.
It's on a web page.
But they wanted to have
a desktop version of it.
And so what they have here is this
application called Pyro is just
really a single-purpose web browser.
And I've seen a lot of
these cropping up recently,
things that are called applications
that are really just a web browser
that points to a particular site,
a real junction point between
web technology and the desktop.
So let me show you now one
of the most interesting
and the rest of the world.
This is actually something built
entirely with web technology.
and others have been working on a new
web kit that is built into WebKit.
It's not yet in the
versions that you get,
say, on the Leopard DVD,
but it is going to be in
nightly builds very soon.
And that's the Web Inspector.
Let's say that I want to take
a look at this website and
figure out how it's built.
And I'm interested in how this
Delete button is implemented.
So I choose this menu item here,
Inspect Element.
And because I have a build of WebKit with
this additional feature in it,
it'll appear any time
I click on anything.
And immediately,
I get a view of the web page.
This is the DOM tree.
So what you see here,
and you probably can't see,
I can make it big just for a second.
Let me put it back to the normal size.
This is the entire DOM tree.
The way HTML works is a tree.
And I have this image
element selected right now.
And over to the right here
are all sorts of details about
the style of that element.
And that's very useful if
you want to find out why
something is a certain color,
what rule made it so.
And I'm not going to take
you through all of this,
but you can find out what style
sheet a particular rule came from.
If you click on that link,
it'll take you right to the
style sheet source code.
There's some other
information you can get.
For example,
what's the size of all the various boxes,
which is really good for
understanding the layout of the page.
Now, as this page loaded,
the document itself is only one of the
things that was loaded from the network.
All sorts of other things were loaded.
For example,
all these images were loaded.
And so we can take a look.
DeleteDim.gif is the one on this one.
I can click on this link.
It'll take me right to it.
And here's the image itself.
And that way,
you can take a look and say, you know,
if you see the name of a resource,
you can go over here and
view what it looks like.
But there-- oops, wrong button.
Oh yeah, that docks it in the window.
Sorry, didn't mean to demo that.
So let me reload this again.
Does it help me show you this?
So if you have the inspector up
while you're loading the page,
it'll also report any
errors in your HTML.
And this page has some tags here,
has some examples here of some tags
that were closed without being open.
So that's great if you develop a site and
you want to see what mistakes you made.
This same console is a place where you
can evaluate any JavaScript exceptions.
So for example,
I'll just type in something here just to
show you that the whole language is here.
Get the Delete button
and get its inner HTML.
And there, it's evaluated the expression.
And so there's the string
that came out of it.
So that's really good if you want to test
some JavaScript functions you've written.
There are so many features.
I want to show you a couple more.
If you type-- let's say you're--
interested in this Delete button,
you want to find out all the
code that's dealing with it.
So let me just type Delete button
into the Search field.
And I'll immediately get
all the different places
Delete button is referenced.
The original HTML source,
which has this cool
syntax highlighting here.
The DOM,
which is the parsed version of the source
with all the information we saw before.
Here's a style sheet.
This is a style rule that applies
specifically to the Delete button.
The JavaScript code,
here's all the places in any
JavaScript code loaded by the
site that refer to that button.
It's real good when sleuthing and trying
to pick apart a site and figure out
how it works or any kind of debugging.
So the last thing I want to show
you here with the Web Inspector is
this little view we have that
shows you how your page loaded.
This is a graph over time.
And so we see each color corresponds
to a different type of thing.
So we see here the document loading,
and then the style sheets loading,
and then the scripts loading,
and then the images loading.
And you can learn a lot about
why it takes a certain amount
of time to load your site.
This is really good for figuring out how
your site will perform on a slow network,
too.
So we think this is going to be really
popular for people doing web development,
whether they're targeting
the desktop or iPhone.
So this tool that will
help you build those apps,
it was created entirely
with web technologies.
And because of that,
it's going to work in
any WebKit application,
and it also works in Safari.
We didn't have to do a whole
new version just to make it
work on Windows as well as OS X.
And it's going to be available
soon in WebKit Nightly Builds.
So Mac OS X is a really popular
platform for people who are
developing content for the web.
And I just wanted to dig a little bit
into the reason why it's so popular.
This is something I've
heard for a long time.
And I think one of the biggest reasons
is all the tools that are side by side.
What's built into OS X are all
these unique server technologies,
the very same server
technologies that many,
if not most,
websites use on the back ends.
And also there are these beloved
client-side tools that are really what
people building websites love to use.
And they're both there on OS X.
So if you take a look at
all these built-in tools,
I just picked a few here
to give you the idea.
But these are a few of the things
that are built in that you can
actually run on your OS X machine.
And a lot of web developers I know sort
of run a small version of the site on the
very same machine they're developing on.
And you can do that without
having to add anything,
because all this stuff comes built in.
And then as far as client-side tools,
there are these crucial tools that
you use both for content creation,
manipulating your images,
editing your HTML,
and all that sort of thing.
And both of these are available on OS X.
But I think there's another reason.
And I went and asked some web developers
why is it they like to develop on OS X.
And this is what Jason Freed told me.
Jason is the CEO and
founder of 37signals,
the company that created and popularized
Ruby on Rails and also the application,
a lot of web applications.
And he said,
working on OS X reminds me that beauty,
clarity, and workflow matter.
That's a valuable reminder
when you're building a web app.
about.
So I think that there are some things
that go beyond just the concrete issues
of exactly which tools are available
that affect people choosing OS X.
So how is it that these web technologies
are put together and work across
all of these different web browsers?
The key is web standards.
And I'm just going to say a
word or two about web standards.
This is an open process that
involves all the different
people who make web browsers.
And in addition, lots of people are
interested in web technology.
And the way the standards process works
helps prevent us from really diverging
when we have these multiple browsers
all trying to work with the same web.
And it also gives a way for innovations
to spread from one browser to another.
The process is managed by
standards organizations.
And two of the most important
standards organizations are the W3C.
This is the original organization
that does the HTML standard and
all sorts of vital web standards.
And also, more recently,
there was a group called the
What Working Group formed
a little while back.
It was formed by the browser vendors who,
at the time, were a little bit frustrated
with not enough standards that
really were relevant to the
future directions of browsers.
There's a recent standard that's
being developed that's actually being
worked on by both of these groups.
It was started in the
What Working Group and now
is being worked on in both
W3C and What Working Group.
And its original name was different,
but it's now called HTML5.
And this standard is going to be a really
big deal for the future of the web.
One of the things that
HTML5 is doing is defining,
previously undocumented and undefined
things about the web very clearly
so that the browsers will all be
able to implement them the same way.
So it's really going to
help for compatibility.
A lot of the new features that really
would help pushing Web 2.0 even further--
I don't know if I was more of a marketer.
It might say Web 3.0 there.
And also,
some relevant Apple points are it
includes Apple's Canvas element,
which we created and was
quickly implemented in some
of the other major browsers.
Some recent news-- we contributed a
design for video and audio elements.
We really want to bring media out of the
plug-in world into the browser world.
And our proposal was very well received.
And it was a great example of bringing
a lot of the expertise that our
media experts here have at Apple.
Last thing I want to say about
HTML5 is that this is one of the
easiest standards to participate in.
It's even more open than most.
The mailing list where the
technical issues are discussed is
something you can subscribe to.
If you're interested,
go to the W3C website.
So what's coming in web technology?
Well,
there's going to be more innovation.
For us at Apple,
this standards and this whole
space of web is a place where
we want to do a lot more.
And as you can see, we're really serious
about web technology,
having just brought Safari to
new platforms with a bunch of new
features and an open-source approach.
And I think there are some
opportunities for developers here.
And one of them is,
if you have an existing website,
turn it into a richer Web 2.0 website.
Or if you have an application,
think about what kind of web presence
really makes sense for your app.
With the web technologies,
there are a whole variety of
different ways to kind of add
the web to your desktop app.
And there's also this situation
where Web 2.0 has undergone
this explosive growth,
and I don't think the development tools
have really caught up to that yet.
So I think while there's
some really exciting new ones
that have come out recently,
I think there's room for
web development tools.
So for some of you,
that may be an opportunity as well.
And as you heard this morning,
the skills that you develop developing
web applications are going to
be directly relevant to making
great applications for iPhone.
So with that,
I'd like to hand it back to Peter.
Thanks a lot, Darren.
Thank you.
Great.
So Darren talked a lot about the web.
And I'm going to take you through
the media section of the talk,
where we're going to talk about
the media platform for Apple.
So really, if you look at kind of the web
2.0 application phenomenon,
you know, kind of Google Maps being the
archetypical starting point for that,
more and more of these sites are starting
to-- like YouTube and Google Video,
other sites starting to add video
and media into their websites.
So it's a really important kind
of development in web design.
And Apple plays a role in that,
certainly, with all the great technology
we build right into Mac OS X.
It makes a great foundation for
the wealth of content creation apps
that you see out there that some of
you have built and Apple's as well.
At the heart of all of
this media platform for
Apple is QuickTime and H.264.
So let's talk a little bit about H.264.
It's the next-generation codec
from the MPEG community as well
as the phone standards groups.
It comes in a variety of profiles.
It's really meant to scale all the
way from phone-type applications
all the way up to HD and cinema.
It comes in three basic profiles,
extended, main, and baseline,
and I won't go into all the details.
But it's been well-received in
the industry and adopted by many,
many platforms from PSP to Xbox and
PlayStation 3 and platforms like that.
And of course, Apple uses it for a
number of applications.
We use it in a real-time
teleconferencing video chat,
the application we ship with the OS,
iChat AV.
So it's great low-latency codec.
It's also the backbone of our
media business with iTunes,
with the content we distribute,
both movies and TV shows.
And of course, with Apple TV,
with recent announcement with YouTube,
what we've done is we've had them give
us a web feed of their content in 264,
and we put a user interface
on the Apple TV for that.
So we're using 264 with
the YouTube content there.
So really, across all of Apple products,
it's really the core of our
strategy to leverage this effort
on this codec and implement
it up and down the product line.
And some specific
examples of the bitrate.
So we have sites that we use,
for example, to get full HD on a decent
performing Intel Mac.
It might be 1920 by 1080 HD.
For Apple TV, we have 720p video,
also HD.
iPod and iPhone are megabit and
a half of the baseline profile.
And on iPhone,
we have format as well that is tuned
and optimized for the edge data.
network, the cellular data network.
So all the way up and down,
we can get great video.
So let's talk a little bit
about media on the iPhone.
We haven't really talked
a lot about this yet,
but it's real important that
you guys understand what's
coming with iPhone and media.
So iPhone can play back
media in two forms.
First off, it's an iPod,
so it can take any content
that's synced via iTunes.
If you have a podcast,
it can get synced to iPhone and
actually stored like a video iPod.
Or you can stream via Safari.
We've extended Safari with a simple
embed in object tags that can
do streaming over the internet.
The thing to remember about
iPhone is it's always connected,
so it has both Wi-Fi and
Edge connectivity.
In fact, it can switch between them if
you go out of range of a hotspot,
Edge automatically comes on.
So it's real important to
realize that there's pretty
different data rates there,
and so we're recommending
about a megabit per second.
So it's a simple profile for
Wi-Fi and about a 90 kilobit
stream for the Edge network.
The more speeds and speeds,
the 264 baseline that
is supported is level 3,
and it's up to 640 by 480
at 30 frames per second.
We also recommend AACLC,
which is our standard audio codec,
and for media container formats,
it's .move, mp4, m4v, and 3gp.
So this is not in your seed,
but we are going to be adding
to the ever-growing Movie 2
exporter list for a quick time.
We're going to add Movie to iPhone,
which is appropriate for streaming
over Wi-Fi or hotspot connectivity.
We're going to add
Movie to iPhone Cellular,
which is for the Edge data network.
It's compatible with the 3GP file format.
And of course, Movie to iPod,
since iPhone is part iPod,
that data rate works as well.
And one of the things you may not know
if you haven't been around the quick time
media space is understanding the concepts
of ref movies or reference movies.
And these are movies you put on
a website that actually point
off to a bunch of different
representations of the same video.
So for example,
based at runtime on conditions
like network or whether you're
connected to Edge or Wi-Fi,
we can pick the appropriate
data stream to feed.
And this works both
on desktop and iPhone.
So with that,
let me go over to the iPhone and
give you some more demos of media.
So if I can get the iPhone up.
So let me--
I'm going to go into Safari on
the iPhone and I've bookmarked
a site here that we've created
with a bunch of demos for you.
First off,
we took one of Jeff's rehearsal
demos with his World of Warcraft
and made it work on the phone.
And there's a little blog,
Jeff and His Quest.
And you'll see what happens with iPhone,
with media on the iPhone.
There's an embedded experience,
but then media always goes full screen.
So there it's playing.
Let me see if everything's working here.
There we can rotate.
So you'll notice that we have a
full-screen experience on iPhone,
so we don't actually play
video embedded in the web page.
It just goes to full screen,
so we can use all the real estate.
Let me go back.
There's a heads up display there
that I'll show you that in a second.
So let me go back to my page here,
and here's an interesting one.
The apple.com guys, you know,
they launched a new Web site today,
a new redesign.
They're also preparing for iPhone.
So they're actually putting up ref movies
that can stream both edge and Wi-Fi.
And I've got the
Ratatouille trailer here,
which of course you have to play.
I know there's some
Pixar people out there,
and Chris Harkin are the
founders of the Paris France,
home of the finest restaurants and
the greatest chefs in the world.
You can see I do a fit or a
fill just with a double tap.
Go back to my web page.
And rather than just
showing sites we created,
we thought we'd go find some that
work pretty well on the iPhone.
This is a video site.
It's like a soap opera,
but it's only on the web.
So you go watch this site.
And it's a site where the basic setup is
it's a bunch of folks having breakfast,
and they kind of review their
week and what they're doing.
It's kind of fun.
But if I go to the View Episode link,
you'll see they come to
their episode viewer.
And you see the QuickTime logo there?
That's their plug-in for their embed tag.
And the one thing that they haven't
done to be ready for iPhone is we have,
there's a way to do a
JPEG URL for the poster frame.
And that's kind of the
one thing they're missing.
Other than that, they'll be ready.
If anyone who works on that site's here,
maybe they'll be ready tonight.
But basically, you can see the content.
and David I can show you
the scrubbing as well.
We have HTTP 1.1 support.
In fact, you need to have an HTTP 1.1
server to feed iPhone video.
But I can even seek outside of the
range and hopefully it will catch up.
There we go.
Honest, Mr.
Wiley, it was a ride home.
So if you've already seen the
first few minutes of the show,
you can go watch the end.
But anyway, so that's that site.
And like I said,
the only thing they're missing is the
embed tag poster frame rather than
putting the poster frame in the movie.
So they're pretty close.
Let me go back out, and I think that's,
I think I'll just show you that for now
and then save the other one for later.
So that's a few things
about iPhone and media.
So let's talk about Leopard and
H.264 and what we're doing there.
So we've improved the encoding speed.
We know that this is a
sometimes painful process.
You want to get your
content up on the web.
So both the single pass and multi-pass
is about a factor of two faster now,
and we're continuing to work
on that to get it even better.
QtKit has gained some
capture capabilities.
John talked about some of these,
including capture from multiple
cameras simultaneously,
which people have been
asking for as well.
We have alpha support in the 264 codec,
so you can create
compressed alpha movies.
And we're going to turn
on full screen for all.
( Transcript missing )
and I'm going to kind of show you a
best practices site we've put together.
that brings together all of the richness
of web technology plus Quicktime.
So what we have here is a site that
we-- Ducati of America is actually
a neighbor down in Cupertino,
so they were kind enough to let
us take some of their assets
and play around a little bit.
So we've developed the site
here that we think is a best
practices site for embedding media.
So right here we have a
media-- a plug-in instance,
and I can play the video directly,
have an inline experience.
I can stop that.
I have a watch now if I want
a more full-screen experience
of this particular entry.
And what that does is it
switches over to a 720p feed,
and it goes full browser width.
And you'll notice we've got
chapter tracks that are marked,
and you can see as the video
traverses the chapters,
the HTML at the bottom
is changing to respond.
So this is all done in JavaScript.
And you can see as
I hover over the chapters,
I even have little chapter
marks that help me navigate.
So that's pretty cool.
And you can see as
I hover over the chapters,
I even have little chapter
marks that help me navigate.
So that's pretty cool.
So that's... it was really easy
to write the JavaScript controller
as well because of the DOM events.
So let me go back to the site here
and point out a few other things.
We have some download buttons.
We're recommending that people
support downloads direct of,
you know, if you have a video site
like this for both iPod,
Apple TV, and this download goes
directly to QuickTime.
This is the 720p content downloaded.
and the rest of the team.
Peter Graffagnino, John Stauffer,
Geoff Stauffer,
Darin Adler and the rest of the team.
Peter Graffagnino, John Stauffer,
Geoff Stauffer,
Darin Adler and the rest of the team.
Or you can actually drag the
XML directly into the iTunes window.
That works as well if you just want
to manage iTunes to manage it and it's
not through the podcast directory.
So anyway,
that'll sync down all the content.
All the content on this
site is in the XML.
And so, for example,
I've synced a couple of these.
This is an HD version that then
I could sync to my Apple TV.
So we think podcasts are real important.
If you're putting up an
episodic video site or a video
blog or something like that,
to have that XML.
Because I think that's going
to help you reach a lot more
platforms that are more in the sync
model than the streaming model.
Okay, so that's the Ducati site.
Now, what I wanted to do was show you the
Ducati site also running on the iPhone.
So on the iPhone, as I said,
it's the baseline profile,
so some of the media embeds need to
have the proper ref movies to bring up
the appropriate formats for the iPhone
since we support the baseline profile.
If I can get the iPhone up again.
There we are.
So we'll go to the Ducati site.
That is the same bits
from the same server.
And you'll see it's
basically the same design.
I can zoom in and you'll see it render.
And we've done some conditional
browser detection to remove the
download things because they don't
really make sense on the iPhone.
And zoom back out.
I can play the video and
the video goes full screen.
And this is now streaming the
iPhone version of the video.
And to thank them,
I had to actually play the
whole commercial for you just
because I thought it's cool.
Anyway,
so the other thing I wanted to point
out here is the web pages are all,
if you do the right CSS,
you get kind of the semantic zooming
where you can get the appropriate
element kind of coming to the front.
And so that's another thing to be aware
of when you're developing websites.
If we can kind of figure out from your
CSS the important areas of your site,
that really helps navigation.
So anyway,
so that's it for the iPhone demo.
And I believe I left
my clicker over here.
So again, that was the same bits
coming from the same server,
which is just with a few tweaks
and the right content on the site.
So let's review what was on that site.
It used reference movies to be able
to address the appropriate data
rates for desktop and for iPhone.
It used a poster JPEG and
the object embed tag.
That's why the serialized guys
didn't have a poster frame
showing for their content.
One thing on iPhone is you need
to be aware of your viewports.
Some websites are very
particular about their viewports,
and on iPhone,
you need to be aware of that because
it's not the same size as a desktop.
There are ways to detect the user agent,
and so we were doing that to kind of
disable the download buttons because
they don't make sense on the iPhone.
Also, we recommend including an
RSS feed for offline viewing,
and that's your way to
support Apple TV and iPods.
And don't require
JavaScript for media playback.
The media extension that
we have in iPhone right now
does not do any JavaScript.
It just gives you that
full screen experience.
So don't require JavaScript.
Have an alternate.
So that's the combination
of 264 and web technology.
I think you can see you can make some
pretty compelling websites with that.
And again,
you can support the wide variety of
Apple platforms that are out there.
And I think there's a
lot of opportunity here,
both in the authoring space for tools,
as well as in the content
and application space.
So those are the platforms.
We gave you a little
tour today of desktop,
web, and media.
And my message to you is to
really get ready and kind of think
beyond just desktop applications.
Think about this whole bigger
ecosystem of devices and websites and
content and how to support developers
with rich-media experiences.
And of course,
keep iPhone in mind and build great
Web 2.0 experiences on iPhone.
So there are some sessions
I want to point you out.
I can't list them all here
because there's too many,
but I will point out the tracks.
There's the Graphics & Imaging track,
which is about all the
APIs for graphics and media,
of course,
emphasizing the new ones in Leopard.
There's a Content & Media track,
which this year is focusing on web
development and content creation.
You'll definitely want to go to that.
There's a session in here tomorrow
talking specifically about iPhone issues,
and there'll be some discussion
of both the kind of the the
web technology piece of that as
well as the media piece of that.
And in closing,
we decided to have a little fun
since it's at the end of the day,
and we put together a brief
video for your viewing pleasure.
I'd like to roll now.
You have no doubt been hearing
a lot about Web 2.0 recently.
Today on WIT TV,
we sit down with management at a
local company focused on integration
of media with Web 2.0 technologies.
Thanks for letting us
visit CashCal Media.
Before telling the viewers
about your unique approach to
media and Web 2.0 integration,
tell us a little bit about your company.
I'd be glad to.
CashCal Media combines expertise in web
technologies with a passion for media.
Our facilities feature
state-of-the-art equipment,
allowing us to deliver results
to our clients and partners.
( Transcript missing )
And to better serve clients and partners,
we're committed to ongoing
employee education in all the
most relevant web technologies.
Tell us about your focus on Web 2.0
and the opportunities you see.
Yes, certainly.
CCM wholeheartedly embraces the
social networking phenomenon.
Through our partnerships,
we're involved with
the destination sites.
Also, in this results-oriented world,
it's not about what you're doing,
it's about what you've done.
Consider microblogging.
Who has time for sentences,
let alone whole paragraphs?
We're pioneering nanoblogging.
Words, they're the future.
Mm-hmm.
Please tell us about challenges
in producing rich media.
Well, we see many of the same challenges
producers of mainstream media see,
but also face some unique ones.
Take, for example,
finding the right talent for projects.
I see you've only worked
in low-bitrate video.
And we have other challenges
in finding the right talent
for our web media efforts.
Finally,
let me show you something we just
put together demonstrating the
synergy possible between traditional
markets and Web 2.0-enabled media.
In the '70s,
math was hard... ♪ ♪ ...until
the arrival of the calculator.
The lumbering is still hard,
but now there's SearchBar.
( Transcript missing )